# EXCEPTIONS
 There are (at least) two distinguishable kinds of errors:

    Syntax errors
    Exceptions

Errors detected during execution and are not unconditionally fatal.

A `fatal error` will halt execution of the current application, all non-fatal exceptions allow execution to continue. 
 example is the `syntax error`

This allows for code to explicitly catch or rescue the raised exception and programmatically react to it in an appropriate manner.

(run sample exceptions)

The last line of the error message indicates what happened. 

Anything from:
    improper arithmetic
    running out of memory
    invalid file reference
    
may be raised by Python under certain circumstances.



Most exceptions are not handled by programs; However, it is possible to write programs that handle selected exceptions. 

## Exception Handling

In computing and computer programming, exception handling is the process of responding to the occurrence of exceptions (– anomalous or exceptional conditions requiring special processing – ) during the execution of a program. 

In general, an exception breaks the normal flow of execution and executes a pre-registered exception handler; the details of how this is done depend on whether it is a hardware or software exception and how the software exception is implemented. Exception handling, if provided, is facilitated by specialized programming language constructs, hardware mechanisms like interrupts, or operating system (OS) inter-process communication (IPC) facilities like signals. 

Some exceptions, especially hardware ones, may be handled so gracefully that execution can resume where it was interrupted.

### Raising Exceptions

### Exception Chaining
A traceback object is normally created automatically when an exception is raised and attached to it as the __traceback__" attribute, which is writable. You can create an exception and set your own traceback in one step using the "with_traceback()" exception method (which returns the same exception instance, with its traceback set to its argument),

## Creating Exceptions
### Basic rules in python exceptions
There are speciﬁc features in Python to deal with exceptions and exception logic. 

Furthermore, exceptions have a rich type hierarchy, all(builtin and user defined) inheriting from the `BaseException type`; i.e. In Python, all exceptions must be instances of a class that derives from `BaseException`.

NB: Two exception classes that are not related via subclassing are never equivalent, even if they have the same name.

### Built-In Exceptions

The built-in exceptions can be generated by the interpreter or built-in functions. Except where mentioned, they have an “associated value” indicating the detailed cause of the error. This may be a string or a tuple of several items of information (e.g., an error code and a string explaining the code). The associated value is usually passed as arguments to the exception class’s constructor.

Base Classes (exceptions for other exceptions)

1. exception BaseException - The base class for all built-in exceptions; not meant to be directly inherited by user-defined classes 

*******************************************************************
2. exception Exception- All built-in, non-system-exiting exceptions are derived from this class. 
   
   All user-defined exceptions should also be derived from this class. All exception classes that are considered errors are subclasses of the Exception class. In general, any custom exception class you create in your own code should inherit from Exception.
********************************************************************
   
1. exception ArithmeticError - OverflowError, ZeroDivisionError, FloatingPointError

2. exception BufferError - buffer related exceptions
   
3. exception LookupError - IndexError, KeyError.

Concrete Exceptions, OS Exceptions, Warnings, etc

https://docs.python.org/3/library/exceptions.html#exception-hierarchy

### User Defined Exceptions
#### Inheriting from built-in exceptions

1. User code can create subclasses that inherit from an exception type.

2. It’s recommended to only subclass one exception type at a time to avoid any possible conflicts between how the bases handle the args attribute, as well as due to possible memory layout incompatibilities.


### Direct Response

BaseException includes things like KeyboardInterrupt and SystemExit, which use the exception mechanism, but which most people shouldn't be catching. 

BaseException
 +-- SystemExit
 +-- KeyboardInterrupt
 +-- GeneratorExit
 +-- Exception

Things that derive directly from BaseException are generally intended to shut down the system while executing finally blocks and context manager `__exit__` methods to release resources.

### References

https://github.com/python/cpython/blob/3.10/Objects/exceptions.c
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/errors.html#exceptions


# READ MORE ON
In what cases is it not advisable to use exceptions - Hint has to do with memory leaks 
Method Resolution Errors

